welcome to topcast and for a spur of the
moment episode I have a few others in
the pipeline but something came up today
and I thought well this is worth talking
about I really wanted to take a deep
dive on something I read superficially
at first but now with you for the first
time I'm going to read this more
carefully I haven't written any notes
all I've done is see the article and
skimmed through it and thought when is
this going to stop and it's not going to
stop it's not going to stop until some
people do something about it to push
back
so here's my contribution to what I'm
talking about this article appeared
today in nature nature that I respected
or at least once respected science
journal now it is under what's called
comment so fair enough fair play to them
it's under the comment section however I
don't know that the alternative
perspective is often put but we shall
see we shall see what this is about is a
topic that goes against the grain of
everything we talk about here at topcast
one is tempted to say everything here at
talkcast what's it about it's about how
D growth can work here's how science can
help Okay work for what now what are
they talking about what problem or
problems is the growth going to solve
well I suppose we can guess but rather
than guess let's uh let's actually see
what they have to say the subtitle is
wealthy countries can create Prosperity
while using less material and energy if
they abandon economic growth as an
objective so we can create Prosperity
while using less materials and energy by
abandoning economic growth as an
objective what growth is about
fundamentally the reason why we want
economic growth is because we want
population growth we want population
growth because we want more people we
want more people because people are the
very things that provide solutions to
our problems they're the creative
thinkers they're the inventors they are
the artists they are the scientists they
are what gives meaning and richness to
the world more is better now the more
the population increases the more
solutions we do in fact find and history
has shown that there has been nothing
but an increase an increase in the
living standards of people today across
the world people used to live in tribes
does this need to be said we were
primitive once we were struggling to eke
out to scratching existence off this
hostile planet and through an increasing
population with a culture that came with
traditions of criticism the
enlightenment and scientific and
philosophical which only came to us
because of the ideas of people we were
able to lift people out of poverty
reducing the number of people dying
early from sickness and malnutrition
among other things like the cold this
has happened one way of framing this is
because of growth growth in all ways
growth in population growth in the
amount of energy we're using growth in
the amount of money and wealth that we
are creating the growth in the amount of
knowledge and technology and Rapid
progress that we were making all of this
is growth and one metric is economic
growth but it is impossible to decouple
that the economic growth from knowledge
growth from technological growth from
the growth in health and wealth and
wisdom of the world these things just
come together because wealth is a kind
of knowledge wealth is the capacity to
put into action to actually realize the
potential that knowledge has knowledge
has the potential to transform the world
whether it can or not is determined
utterly by whether or not you can afford
to do the thing you know that needs to
be done we've got eight authors for this
particular commentary piece we've got
one person who is a professor at The
Institute of Environmental Science and
Technology The Institute of
environmental science okay we've got a
professor of ecological economics and
political ecology we've got a director
of the center for understanding of
sustainable Prosperity we've got an
associate professor of ecological
economics an economist and Professor
from the Department of Sociology another
professor of ecological economics a
professor of Environmental Studies and a
professor in the department of
environmental Sciences let's just be
clear when they say ecological economics
what they're saying is socialism what
they're saying is ways to reduce the
amount of profit that large corporations
have that's what they're talking about
the evils of profiteering and so their
entire world view is shaped by how evil
the business world is how government
should have central control of things
and ecological economics is a slippery
way of saying here's communism okay it's
a form of communism see this as we work
through the article but that's all
they're talking about is taking away the
capacity of individuals and corporations
to make decisions and instead placing it
into the hands of central planners pure
Marxism so let's begin the article and
they write the global economy is
structured around growth the idea that
firms Industries and Nations must
increase production every year
regardless of whether it is needed
this Dynamic is driving climate change
and ecological breakdown High income
economies and the corporations and
Wealthy classes that dominate them are
mainly responsible for this problem and
consume energy and materials at
sustainable rates end quote okay so this
idea that firms industry and Nations it
must increase Productions every year
regardless of whether it is needed is
completely false this is not what
industries and firms do they want in
part to create solutions to problems but
also create have a profit now they're
not going to artificially produce stuff
if they're not planning on selling that
stuff they want to sell it so they can
get a return on investment creating more
than what the market needs is completely
antagonistic to that entire project
however if you go to a communist Nation
somewhere like China they do in fact
build building after building after
building this has famously occurred in
recent times these huge residential and
Office Buildings in the middle of
nowhere sometimes to give people work
but then no one lives in these things
and so they demolish them again building
and demolishing that is a feature of
communism this precise problem of
increasing Productions every year
regardless of whether it is needed is a
feature of a place like China where
these kind of policies that are about to
be prescribed for us are actually
enacted but they're saying this is what
happens under capitalism it's just not
true that this happens under capitalism
under capitalism you have supply and
demand and if you restrict Supply the
price goes up you don't flood the market
with so much of your product that the
price goes down you no longer make a
profit that's not what you do you make
just enough ideally you make just enough
and sometimes you make slightly more
sometimes you make slightly less than
what the market needs creating either
demand or a little bit of a surplus so
that the price goes down but you don't
want to have so much that you are
producing regardless of whether it is
needed to sit there that's simply false
telling phrase there where they say high
income economies and the corporations
and Wealthy classes that dominate them
are mainly responsible for this problem
the main responsibility for the problem
of climate change insofar as it's
anthropocentric are not so much the
wealthy classes in fact it is people
being brought out of poverty such as in
places like China I think good on these
people who are wanting to come out of
poverty by the way however it simply is
the case it simply is the case that they
are burning more fossil fuels in England
so if you want to put the blame for the
anthropocentric contribution to climate
change anywhere at all you place it not
at the wealthy classes but the people
who are trying to become wealthy who are
at the moment in poverty and using
cheaper forms of energy now I'm going to
come back to that because I think I
think that everyone should have access
to cheaper energy the worst forms of
energy that are of course where people
can't afford even to burn fossil fuels
and are beginning to once again burn the
Primitive forms of fuel and energy like
wood burning forests that's not going to
be good for the environment that's not
going to be good for People's Health so
in terms of ecological breakdown as they
talk about places like Brazil and places
like Africa where forests are being
ripped down in order to drive industry
that's where this is going to happen now
I actually don't have a problem with
ecological breakdown but they do if they
are genuinely concerned they're placing
the blame in the wrong place I don't
think ecological breakdown is actually a
problem I don't think that climate
change is the problem that people tend
to think that it is there are both
benefits and disadvantages from climate
change of course this is taboo to say
that climate change would actually bring
certain advantages to civilization is
something that shouldn't be said it's
just one of those things that people get
dismissed for saying but I'm getting a
little bit tired of the fact that the
only opinions that are allowed on this
on this topic are people who say not
only is all of climate change
anthropocentric but the only way in
order to deal with this is to tax people
heavily and to engage in things like
degrowth okay so it's it's becoming
ridiculous governments are turning to
place is like scientific journals
scientific journals are publishing stuff
like this and so all one needs to say is
look there's an article in the journal
regardless of where that's commentary or
not the politicians will take their cues
from these experts these are ex
so-called expert opinions let's get
going quote yet many industrialized
countries are now struggling to grow
their economies given economic
convulsions caused by the covid-19
pandemic Russia's invasion of Ukraine
resource scarcities and stagnating
productivity improvements governments
face a difficult situation their
attempts to stimulate growth clash with
objectives to improve human well-being
and reduce environmental damage end
quote yes I tend to agree with some of
that for example that governments face a
difficult situation a situation of their
own making because they have brought in
entirely into the catastrophist mindset
this idea that the world is coming to an
end and coming to an end quickly because
of climate change and the best we can do
is to slow down the use of energy slow
down wealth creation reduce the impact
of people on planet Earth all of this
stuff stands in stark contrast yes to
trying to create the conditions where
people can flourish where they can
reduce the rate of unemployment where
they can actually increase the profits
that businesses make these two things
cannot happen simultaneously this is
obviously a contradiction policies on
the one hand that seek to reduce growth
and on the other hand seek to increase
growth so yes governments face at
impossible situation you might say but
the reason why at the beginning there
many industrialized countries are now
struggling to grow their economies is
purely because of the precise policies
in ancient form that are prescribed here
in this article that we're about to get
to being implemented the governments are
already implementing some of these to
some degree in particular the migration
away from cheap and reliable energy to
Renewables which aren't proven to be
able to for example power a city at
night how do we do that how do we power
a city at night with solar power and
wind with batteries okay how many
batteries precisely do we need on a cold
Winter's Night for a place like New York
how is that possible and yet if you
listen to certain politicians that are
in power this is the kind of thing they
seem to be implying that somehow we can
get away entirely from fossil fuels in
Australia it's more ridiculous still we
sit on a bed of coal that is second
almost to nowhere else except maybe
Russia and China these vast reserves of
coal that Australia sits upon are being
exported but apparently we don't want to
use it we are trying to reduce the
amount of coal we are using we are not
building any more coal-fired power
stations we might very well go to
nuclear because we have among the
largest reserves of uranium on the
planet as well but we have a policy in
this country because of successive
government saying they refuse to build
nuclear power reactors which they leaves
us only with solar and wind and the tiny
little bit of hydro that we have in this
country whatever the case one main
reason industrialized countries are now
struggling to grow their economies is
precisely because of this imposition of
policies which seek to tax people in
wealthy countries in order to mitigate
supposedly the effects of climate change
even though it is questionable as to
whether any of those effects are
actually occurring now actually need to
be mitigated right now are the sea
levels rising to a point where they're
flooding Inland areas no however every
time there is some sort of natural
disaster it is being blamed upon climate
change if the temperature goes up that's
climate change if the temperature goes
down that's climate change if the winter
is unusually cold if the summer is
unusually hot or vice versa it is said
to be a symptom of climate change if
Australia has floods that's regarded as
climate change if Australia has droughts
that's regardless climate change as if
these things have never happened before
at the rate that they're happening now
they have people only need to go to the
historic records for this let's keep
going researchers in ecological
economics call for a different approach
D growth
pausing there ecological economic
researchers and ecological economics
okay so avowed Communists call for a
different approach D growth okay wealthy
economies should abandon growth of gross
domestic product GDP as a goal scale
down destructive at an unnecessary forms
of production to reduce energy and
material use and focus economic activity
around securing human needs and
well-being end quote so what we're
saying there is that we want Central
planning after all how can a wealthy
economy abandon or rather scale down
destructive and unnecessary forms of
production who decides what's
destructive who decides what's
unnecessary well apparently the
government will and they'll go in and
they'll tell industry well you are doing
something unnecessary you're engaging in
an unnecessary form of production what
would unnecessary be well according to
these people probably anything that
isn't just your bare necessities of life
the absolute bare necessities of having
a roof over your head and food to eat
everything else is going to be
unnecessary that's a mere want that you
have you don't need to have the latest
car or the latest computer or anything
like that no Comforts no luxuries
nothing like that that's going to
destroy the planet so we're going to
reduce production of those things that
will reduce the amount of energy and
material use
Focus economic activity around securing
human needs and well-being we've already
secured human needs in the west people
are not starving in the west they have
abundance and this is a great thing and
this this abundance is what secures
human well-being not the reduction in
these things the perfect way to
eliminate human well-being to reduce it
to its lowest ebb is to engage in D
growth that's the perfect way to do it
to not give people access to cheap
reliable electricity to make their
electricity bills go up so they can't
afford to pay for anything else this is
a great way to stress people out make
them worried and cause fear in the
children as they're being raised in a
world where they're told the world's
coming to an end and by the way you
can't afford anything this is immoral
it's unscientific it's unreasonable
let's keep going
this approach which has gained Traction
in recent years yes it certainly has end
quote this approach to this whole
approach of scaling down destructive and
unnecessary forms of production so some
extent yes it has gained traction it's
gained so much traction that in fact
governments have begun to enact policies
around this which has caused an economic
decline we could have far more growth
than what we have far more wealth
production at a greater rate than what
we have but the the small amount we do
have is happening in spite of the
terrible policies in spite of them not
because of them okay so this approach
was a gang Traction in recent years can
enable rapid decarbonization and stop
ecological breakdown while improving
social outcomes it frees up energy and
materials for low and middle income
countries in which growth might still be
needed for development ah okay so it
frees up energy materials for low and
middle income countries in which growth
might still be needed for development so
we're admitting there in the article
that growth is good sometimes for low
and middle income countries look even
the USA is a low income country compared
to the USA of the year 3000 if things go
well if things go well if we managed to
escape from this degrowth nonsense then
all countries presently existing that
are high income are actually low income
compared to their future possible selves
and so this is why growth is needed we
are at the beginning of infinity things
can get a heck of a lot better and
things can get worse one way to ensure
they get worse is to engage in degrowth
okay let's keep going the article says
quote degrowth is a purposeful strategy
to stabilize economies and Achieve
social and ecological goals unlike
recession which is chaotic and socially
destabilizing and occurs when growth
dependent economies fail to grow ah end
quote so what they're saying here is
that recession is what you normally call
a sequence of periods where you've got
deer growth I think the technical term
is well is it two maybe three quarters
of successive negative economic growth
in a two or three year two or three
quarters of successive negative economic
growth but they're saying he will know
this would be purposeful
because it's a purposeful recession it's
not really a recession because we
planned this all the way along what do
you think happens when degrowth happens
when you have degrowth when you reduce
the amount of wealth that a society has
access to that means everyone has less
money that means everyone is less
wealthy within that society that means
literally over time people can't afford
to buy the stuff they want to which
could very well include for the lowest
income people the food that they have
but of course these people will argue
there will be no low-income people in
this new world in this new world
everyone earns the same why haven't we
tried that before why haven't we tried
that before perhaps because we have many
times it is a tribal idea the chief of
the tribe would have all of the stuff
and would determine that everyone else
gets a certain amount of the resources a
certain amount of food the modern
version of the tribe is nothing but
communism nothing but communism let's
get going the article says quote reports
this year by the intergovernmental panel
on climate change ipcc in the
intergovernmental science policy
platform and on biodiversity and
ecosystems ipbes suggests that d-growth
policies should be considered in the
fight against climate breakdown and
biodiversity loss respectively policies
to support such a strategy include the
following well let's get into it what do
they suggest can be done or should be
done well we've mentioned some already
firstly reduce less necessary production
this means scaling down destructive
sectors such as fossil fuels
mass-produced meat and dairy fast
fashion advertising cars and Aviation
including private jets at the same time
there is a need to end the planned
obsolescence of products lengthen their
lifespans and reduce the purchasing
power of the rich end quote reduce the
purchasing power of the rich how do you
do that how do you do that except
through force and coercion okay so
there's implied violence here to reduce
the purchasing power of the rich now if
if you want to forcibly also
eliminate stuff like Fast fashion let's
say so that your clothes last longer
okay there's this idea that certain
manufacturers of clothes make them
deliberately of poor quality so they
fall apart into Rags over time I don't
know if this is true by the way but
let's assume that it is so that you'll
go back and buy a year after year new
stuff now if you put government in
charge of let's say making clothes okay
passing regulations to make clothes what
do you think will happen do you think
you'll get better clothes it's like
euron Brook often says holding up his
iPhone would you put the government in
charge of making smartphones what kind
of smartphone do you think you'd end up
with if the government was in charge of
innovating technology like that the same
is true of everything the same is true
of clothes you think you'd really get
the best sort of clothes if the
government was in charge of regulating
how the clothes were made I know for a
fact that people who want to purchase
good quality clothes can I was listening
to Jocko willink's podcast recently one
of his businesses is engaged in making
boots and clothes and stuff and he says
that he makes the stuff deliberately of
such high quality that it could in
theory last an entire lifetime so you
buy a pair of boots from Jocko and they
will just last forever they will last
your entire life they will outlive you
and why so that there is an option there
in the market if you want to buy that
thing rather than the boot that's made
somewhere else of lower quality then you
have the choice you have the choice to
do that but these people want to take
away your choice and to give you the
government regulated boot the government
regulated singlet for government
regulated pair of trousers Etc they say
they're in the very first sentence there
too this means scaling down destructive
sectors such as fossil fuels destructive
Sexes so it's all downside with the
fossil fuels but how is it all down so
how are they just destructive they're
just destructive they don't actually do
anything good they don't actually
provide the fuel in order to smelt the
fire up the iron smelter in order to
produce the steel fossil fuels don't
actually provide the materials in order
to create the environment around you
anything made out of plastic that's
going to be a fossil fuel and of course
they don't provide the literal energy to
power the electrical systems and the
transportation systems around the world
so that's not destructive none of those
things are destructive what they do do
is provide some additional carbon
dioxide carbon dioxide by the way Once
Upon a Time used to be in the atmosphere
was that at a time when people couldn't
have possibly lived on the earth
absolutely because the amount of oxygen
then was less however there is also such
a thing there is also such a thing as
carbon dioxide saturation of the
atmosphere where at the moment the
amount of carbon dioxide in the
atmosphere is something like 412 parts
per million according to NASA just
looking it up now but the effects the
capacity of carbon dioxide to trap heat
in the atmosphere which is a real thing
yes it absolutely does it forms a
blanket on the atmosphere it can become
saturated if you double the amount of
carbon dioxide in the atmosphere right
now we'd still be able to breathe fine
we're not going to suffocate or anything
like that if you doubled it to about 800
you wouldn't double the amount of heat
that is trapped by the atmosphere
because of this idea of saturation the
effect of carbon dioxide in trapping
heat in the atmosphere is almost
saturated as it is does this mean that
adding additional carbon dioxide won't
trap more heat yes but it's marginal
will it cause the melting of the Polar
Ice Cubs it could could we do anything
about that yes we can we can build sea
walls have a look at the Netherlands the
Netherlands knows how to deal with
existing in a place where the sea levels
if they didn't have sea walls if they
didn't have mitigation Technologies
would actually flood almost the entire
country certainly flood places like
Amsterdam or the Hague okay so that's
all all very scary so they want to
reduce
cars and Aviation including private jet
they don't want you to move anywhere and
so at least I don't want you to move
anywhere fast
reduce cars they don't even they're not
even saying that well maybe electric
cars would be okay no it's just we we
want to reduce the amount of cars and
less necessary Powers any of this stuff
less not necessary uh okay so the fast
fashion might be if we take that
seriously maybe that's less necessary
but why are cars less necessary what's
Aviation less necessary including
private private jets by the way it seems
to me you know you don't have to watch
the news for very long to realize that
it's the people advocating for these
kind of policies the politicians in the
main who are catching the private jets
everywhere and I just love how the
writers of the article seem to think
that we just know how to do this stuff
so there is a need to end the planned
obsolescence of products so I've heard
that this is a phenomenon but I'm just
not sure I'm just not sure that it's a
function of making these products much
more quickly and much more cheaply and
this is a good thing more people have
access to things like washing machines
and refrigerators which people say oh
you know you go back 50 60 years ago and
the refrigerator you bought at the time
is still running today it just lasts
forever and ever and ever the compressor
inside of it was just really well
constructed yeah but not everyone had a
refrigerator back then either and the
refrigerator probably cost you you know
what 10 weeks wages or something these
days it costs one week's wages and
they're pumped out a lot faster and
everyone's got a refrigerator so this is
the cost benefit analysis that you do if
you decide to engage in a policy like
this to lengthen their lifespans
lifespans of products what do you think
happens to the costs what do you think
happens to the cost puts it out of the
reach of everyone oh no the government
will come in and help you get but where
does the government get its money from
from taxing the people okay and well
this is just terrifying reducing the
purchasing power of the rich the only
way to do that is to reduce their wealth
to turn the rich into the poor which is
what they want as if the rich didn't
create their wealth some didn't sure
some inherited their wealth but they are
a tiny minority it appears to be the
case when people look into the
sociological effects of this stuff that
it only takes one or two generations for
the sons and daughters and grandchildren
of the millionaires to just go back to
having very to having no more money than
the average person because well they
didn't create in the first place they
don't know how to handle money and so
they end up not having much of it on the
other hand the people the Elon musks of
the world are creating the wealth of
Jeff Bezos the world of creating the
wealth taking it off them so they can't
reinvest it back into the profitable
business is a recipe for disaster let's
keep going improve Public Services it is
necessary to ensure universal access to
high quality Health Care education
housing Transportation internet
renewable energy and nutritious food
Universal Public Services can deliver
strong social outcomes without high
levels of resource use end quote I don't
know how this is like magic so Universal
Public Services can do this without high
levels of resources how do you power all
the stuff that's in the hospital
reliably do you really want to rely upon
only only solar and wind and batteries
in order to power your hospital the
life-saving technology in your hospital
I want something that we has been shown
to be reliable over many many years and
we can explain how it's going to be
reliable rather than an experimental and
entirely experimental electricity grid
batteries will become better sure but
they're not there yet and you need to
manufacture the batteries and you need
to do mining in order to extract the
materials you need in order for the
battery to run in order to manufacture
all of this stuff you need to do some
Mining and then you need to do refining
which takes lots and lots of heat among
other things and I have no problem with
ensuring universal access to high
quality Healthcare education housing
Transportation internet Etc but I just
don't think the government is the one to
do it I think the best way to give
everyone high quality cheap health care
not to force it onto people but rather
to enable them to be able to afford it
is via a free market system where
doctors can compete with each other for
providing services that would be one
thing in terms of Housing and
transportation aren't we already there
in the west we have universal access to
housing and transportation it is
fractions of a percent of people who
can't afford housing in Western
countries the people who don't have
housing are typically engaged in some
sort of addictive behavior they've got
some severe problems that they're
dealing with but all one needs to do all
one needs to do is to put a small amount
of effort into putting one foot in front
of the other perspiring just a little
bit putting a little bit of effort in
and one can afford housing one can
afford Transportation one can afford
internet how cheap is internet now
almost everyone has a mobile phone even
in developing countries people have
smartphones now internet is cheap and
the way that this has been delivered to
people is not via a North Korean style
system it is via a free market system
even China has realized this the only
reason the only reason that the people
in China have been able to raise is the
standard of living is by allowing some
small amount of the free market into
that country not enough that would be a
heck of a lot more wealthy more people
would be more wealthy in China because
there are still many denizens of that
poor country that are stricken with
poverty because of the Communist system
they have in the rural areas of China
absolutely but the people in the cities
at least are now beginning to flourish
to some extent if not in terms of free
speech and Liberty and self-expression
at least in terms of a degree of wealth
that wouldn't be possible if you had
more government control over that system
which is what's being prescribed here
their next prescription quote introduce
a green jobs guarantee this would train
and mobilize labor around urgent social
and ecological objectives such as
installing Renewables insulating
buildings regenerating ecosystems and
improving social care a program of this
type would end unemployment and ensure a
just transition out of jobs for workers
in declining Industries or Sunset
sectors such as those contingent on
fossil fuels it could be paired with a
universal income policy so this is just
pure rank communism nothing but everyone
gets a job and everyone has given a
universal income everyone's coming even
the people who well if you've got the
mobilized labor market where everyone
gets a job there's no need for providing
a universal income to people who don't
have a job because everyone will have a
job they've got a jobs guarantee there's
a jobs guarantee so whatever you're
working in no matter how hard you study
no matter how much effort you put in you
will get the same wage as everyone else
the universal income the universal
income so sit back enjoy your life no
need to try hard no need to be creative
because we're just going to send you a
check
so you'll be motivated to work hard
won't you does anyone really think that
everyone is going to be able to be
employed in just those few Industries
just those Industries such that they're
involved in installing Renewables
insulating buildings regenerating
ecosystems and improving social care so
we're going to have millions of people
engaged in those areas I thought earlier
we were talking about not producing
unnecessary stuff and yet we're going to
have so many people insulating buildings
that
double and triple insulating buildings
once we've insulated every building what
then what then or installing Renewables
once we've got enough solar panels and
enough wind turbines what then what then
an army of Maintenance Crews that are
just performing unnecessary maintenance
on things that keep themselves occupied
I suppose they all sit down you know
they lay on their backs and they stare
up at the sky at this point you know
that they just enjoy the Utopia that's
been built around them they enjoy the
life that is the unproblematic state
they enjoy a world in which they are
expert solar panel installers they are
expert installers of insulation in homes
but there better not be another problem
that crops up a problem which doesn't
require expert solar panel installers
because where are we going to be then
people who think creatively and out of
the box about all sorts of other things
that might be needed in a world where we
can't possibly predict the problems of
the future well forget about that okay
because we're going to be able to solve
everything with just these few
Industries just these few areas of
expertise that the government has deemed
will be required under any circumstance
ever that is foreseeable to them
this is a recipe for disaster never mind
the asteroid that's coming towards us
never mind the other catastrophe that's
just around the corner we've got lots of
solar panels oh no hold on the next
the next Point actually fixes this so we
don't have to worry about having too
many buildings being insulated we don't
have to worry about installing excess
solar panels why because well the next
Point says quote reducing working time
this could be achieved by lowering
retirement age and carrying encouraging
part-time working or adopting a four-day
working week these measures with lower
carbon dioxide emissions and Free People
to engage in care and other welfare
improving activities they would also
stabilize employment as less necessary
production the clients perfect they they
thought quicker than I did I didn't
realize so once you've insulated all the
buildings and once you've put all the
solar panels down that you could
possibly ever need well then we just
reduce the working time you see we don't
need people to be doing stuff so it's
free energy from the Sun okay and we
just have a small number of maintenance
people that will fix that stuff okay so
what's wrong with it what's wrong with
all this is people aren't free to
explore their own areas of interest and
be paid for it so they're being
guaranteed a job another way of saying
that they're being forced into working
in a particular industry there's very
little entrepreneurship here it's not
permitted anymore it's not permitted to
do stuff like Elon Musk does like
building Rockets that's absolutely ruled
out how environmentally unfriendly is
that we don't need other unnecessary
things like people building ever faster
computers what do you need a faster
computer for what are you mining crypto
we don't need that anymore so we're not
trying to push the frontiers of
Technology forward anymore we're not
searching for the problems of tomorrow
so that we can find the solutions that
are needed to overcome those problems
we're not looking anymore because we've
created the Utopia here on Earth the
government knows what's best it'll put
people into the jobs where it thinks
they are required this is precisely what
North Korea does by the way you know
after you've graduated school you're up
you are funneled straight into a
particular area into a particular job
the government knows what's best this
idea of a universal income this idea of
reducing working time and so on this is
a perfect way to destroy a person's
sense of self-worth to tell them that no
matter matter how hard they work they're
not going to earn more money there's no
hope of being able to improve their lot
in life it's fixed and to tell them that
well they're not really needed anyway
okay let's reduce the amount of hours
that are expected to be needed now this
is fine if you have your own business if
you want to do something like that
because you can think creatively about
how to improve the business in your
times when you're off let's say but here
there is no scope for this type of
creativity I suppose if you want to be
an artist maybe you could do that so
long as it was in in line with the
government policy okay you wouldn't want
to be creating art that's against any of
this stuff okay expressing let's say
ideas of Liberty and free expression
that's probably not going to be allowed
but you know maybe you can paint the
propaganda posters or something like
that in a world like this maybe you're
allowed to do that let's keep going
quote enable sustainable development
this requires canceling unfair and
unpayable debts of low and middle income
countries curbing unequal Exchange in
international trade and creating
conditions for productive capacity to be
reoriented towards achieving so social
objectives okay so debt forgiveness look
given the kind of debts that governments
have forgiven over the last few decades
forgiving the debts of certain countries
I would almost not mind I mean Banks
were bailed out to the tune of trillions
of dollars not that long ago well within
living memory of a millennial however
this is also this is also a recipe for
an economic lack of discipline so for
example I know that in the EU for
example places like Germany which are
highly productive and produce a lot of
money and a lot of wealth tend to bail
out the other countries in the EU that
aren't like Greece does this mean that
Greece then has any cultural reason to
change its Behavior or its habits no
does this create a little bit of
resentment in amongst the German people
for other countries in the EU possibly
so it's not a great idea to go around
just forgiving the debts that people owe
you that money is the money of citizens
it's the money of taxpayers it's your
money it's your money being given away
to other countries and then we're not
asking for it back if you want to give
away your money to someone that's called
charity and you have every right to do
that but when the government comes and
takes your money and gives it to someone
else that's not charity that's not you
doing a good thing that's the government
forcing you to do something let's keep
going quite some countries regions and
cities have already introduced elements
of these policies many European nations
guarantee free health care and education
okay end quote do they guarantee free
health care and education no it's not
free it's government paid for and who
does the government get its money
taxpayers is the free health care as
good as the health care that you get in
places like the United States possibly
not why because in a place like the
United States we've actually got lots of
Entrepreneurship going on there lots of
advances going on in the healthcare
sector because it's one of the few
places in the world where places like
pharmaceutical companies can still make
a profit in order to invest in the next
cycle of cures and treatments in other
places it's regulated because it's
government provided and so the
government is going to put a cap on
costs which means the healthcare
providers cannot generate the kind of
profits that would be needed in order to
do the research to fund the research
that can improve stuff thankfully we do
have the United States where that is
still going on and to some extent in
Britain as well yes there's medical
research that goes on everywhere but it
could be going on a lot more if there
wasn't government provided health care
that regulated this kind of stuff okay
and as they keep going they keep saying
free here but it's not free it just
means taxpayer funded you're forced to
pay for something even if you don't use
it so they go on to say quote Vienna and
Singapore around a renowned for high
quality public housing okay taxpayer
funded housing and nearly 100 cities
worldwide offer free public transport
taxpayer funded public transport so if
you're driving a car all day every day
and you never get on the bus and you
never get on the train then you're
paying for people who do okay now I'm a
public transport user okay and I I
sometimes do resent the fact that I both
pay tax and I then have to buy a ticket
for the bus or the train that doesn't
make much sense to me you're being hit
twice nonetheless I recognize the fact
that anywhere that offers free public
transport is actually just getting the
additional money from the taxpayer
that's all it's not free if you're gonna
have free public transport why not get a
give everyone a free car like seriously
why not why don't the people who drive
cars get free cars if the people who
catch trains get a free train why don't
we have free Ubers for everyone I'm sure
there are some people sitting there now
going yeah that sounds like a great idea
well because the reason why you
shouldn't because is because someone has
to pay if someone does pay for that it's
the taxpayer I have a better idea of
what to do with my money than the
government does than a central planner
does let's get going job guarantee scans
have been used by many nations in the
past and experiments with basic incomes
and shorter working hours are underway
in Finland Sweden and to New Zealand but
implementing a more comprehensive
strategy of degrowth in a safe and just
way faces five key research challenges
as we outline here okay so we're going
to get into that look this idea of
shorter working hours this is something
that anyone can negotiate with their
employer okay so some places it's very
difficult to negotiate that kind of
thing but I know that if you're working
in an industry like fast food let's say
the Casual workers are called casual
workers because they get to choose their
own hours as many hours as they want or
as few hours as they want broadly
speaking in places where it really is
nine to five then talk to your boss if
you don't like it this is the whole
point of having a free market system for
labor is that you can move from one job
to another where the conditions are
better in a government run scheme you
wouldn't have Choice it would just be
what the government tells you to do you
have to do we know what this is like
pick any government job the police force
is a government job the Army is a
government job those people to not get
to choose their own hours they have very
little choice about not only the hours
they work but where they work as well I
get posted anywhere any government job
any guaranteed job is going to come with
guaranteed conditions as well which
might not be to your liking on the other
hand if you're free to leave as in the
private sector then you can find
something better and you can keep on
resigning and applying resigning and
applying is it always that easy no it's
not that's why sometimes you just have
to work hard that's the reality of our
circumstance if you want to eat you need
money if you want money then you have to
work and sometimes you have to work hard
long hours but if you do that if you
accept the reality of that situation and
you do work hard for just a few years
you can get to a point where you no
longer have to work as hard and
eventually the ideal is you get to a
point where you're not working at all
where your money is working for you
where you're able to invest in things
and you can escape from this grind but
that's not possible in this world that
they are painting for us in this world
they're painting everyone has a
guaranteed job everyone's going to work
all the time and you're going to do what
you're told by the central planner and
you can't resign but of course they want
to have it both ways they want to both
say you've got a guaranteed job but
you've also got a guaranteed income
so what if you resign your job well
you've still got the guaranteed income
right what if everyone resigns their job
nothing gets done okay this hasn't been
thought through it's not logical it
doesn't it's not internally consistent
these prescriptions here okay let's read
the next bit remove dependencies on
growth economies today depend upon
growth in several ways welfare is often
funded by tax revenues pausing there um
welfare is always funded by tax revenues
always that's that's the way in which
you get welfare you you extract the
wealth from one place from a certain set
of tax base and you give it to other
people who are earning much much less
money perhaps none creating no wealth
sometimes I can understand this as
needed it wouldn't always be needed
however in a world in which people had
more wealth for themselves we would have
Charities we would have charity able to
fill in the Gap Private Industry as they
already do people would give way more to
charity if they weren't giving so much
to the government okay I'm going to skip
a couple of paragraphs here I want to
get to the final paragraph under this
remove dependencies on growthing and
they say quote these models typically
focus on a single country and fail to
take into account border Dynamics such
as movements of capital and currency for
example if markets are spooked by low
growth in one country some companies
might move their Capital overseas which
could adversely affect the original
country's currency and increase
borrowing costs conditions such as these
post severe financial problems for
Argentina in 2001 in Greece in 2010.
international cooperation for tighter
border control of capital movements
needs to be considered in the effects
modeled end quote aha there we go so we
need a global government of some sort
the code for international corporation
code for international cooperation for
tied to border control Global government
which will stop people leaving one
country which has terrible conditions
and moving to another country but why
why would you need tighter border
controls why would anyone want to leave
a particular country because of degrowth
but isn't D growth a good thing like if
you're in a country with degrowth surely
the Utopia is beginning around you to
flourish no they're already thinking
ahead they're already thinking degrowth
might have some downsides people might
want to escape from a country that has
degrowth therefore we need a globally
coordinated system if everyone agrees on
degrowth then everyone also has to agree
you can't allow people to start leaving
your nation you certainly can't allow
them to start taking Capital out of the
nation to a country that let's say has
gone Rogue and has decided to engage in
growth where everyone is prospering and
becoming more wealthy no we can't allow
that we need a globally coordinated
system some sort of tight border control
so that people are not permitted to
leave and they're not allowed to take
their wealth out of a nation which is
undergoing degrowth recession everyone's
becoming more poverty-stricken and it
becomes increasingly obvious and people
begin to escape as they do across
borders to places that are more wealthy
they're thinking ahead they already
realize that this is billing the cat
this is the writers of this paper
understanding that dig growth is
absolutely going to cause companies and
individuals to flee those places where
degrowth is going on because degrowth is
not good they recognize it themselves
and that's that's ignoring the fact that
you could have corrupt politicians that
are enacting these policies but allowing
certain companies to get around certain
regulations and therefore lining their
own Pockets whether directly with the
tax money in the case of certain tyrants
that happen to crop up now and again or
whether it's just the corrupt
democratically elected politician who
manages to get around certain ways to
businesses and to chummy up with the
CEOs of various companies and to be paid
off let's say so that certain
regulations don't have to be followed
this is all a recipe for corruption
tyranny and Global control this is
dystopia if the government of the
country that you've got your business in
starts to make terrible decisions as
they often do such as in Argentina and
Greece where they're just turning
socialists then you shouldn't be allowed
to leave you shouldn't be allowed to
leave you should be restricted on taking
your money elsewhere in your business
elsewhere this doesn't sound dystopian
does it no this is this is ideal this is
this is definitely a recipe for
governments making good choices
governments enacting policies which will
help the growth of businesses and help
increase the wealth of individuals it's
not going to cost until for example
massively taxed the businesses that are
already in their countries and
delivering that money into their own
Pockets the pockets of corrupt
politicians that's not what would happen
if you knew that the profitable business
that's in your country could be taxed
and taxed and taxed until you are
personally wealthy and could never leave
well it's not what you'd do if you're a
corrupt politician many politicians are
corrupt okay next
next they say fund Public Services New
forms of financing will be needed to
fund public services without growth
governments must stop subsidies for
fossil fuel extraction
in quite positive just my reflection on
that subsidies for fossil fuel
extraction it's not so much subsidies
they provide they just provide certain
tax breaks so they have the the fossil
fuel companies pay less tax than certain
other Industries do good I would like if
everyone paid less tax so I'm never
going to bemoan the fact that particular
sector or particular person pays less
tax good I say good insofar as it does
actually happen in certain countries
which it may you might get a tax break
in order to build the technology in
order to find the oil or find the coal
or whatever it happens to be that you do
to do exploration let's say you get a
certain tax break for that however I
know for a fact that in places like
Australia the coal and Mining Industries
pay a lot more tax well above the
industry average they have special taxes
applied one of the great concerns
recently is in the federal government
wanting to partially nationalize the
coal industry what they're doing is
suggest testing a price cap on call
forcing the gas and coal costs to not
exceed a certain amount so in other
words the fossil fuel companies can't
set their own prices the government's
going to set it which means of course
the fossil fuel companies don't make as
much profit which means in terms of the
states the states impose taxes the
states won't be getting as much taxes
because they tax the profits if the
profits go down the states don't get the
same amount of money from taxation as
they did before the federal government
put a cap on prices and so now there's
this big debate in Australia between the
states and the federal government
because the states are losing out while
the federal government is able to say
look we've put a cap on the prices of
coal and gas it's all ridiculous if the
coal companies were just allowed to
increase production if the gas companies
were allowed to increase production then
of course costs will go down increased
Supply you're going to have reduced
costs but at the moment the Australian
government like so many governments
around the world is restricting the
amount of production of fossil fuels
because of green theories about how the
environment is being affected by these
fossil fuels and so therefore they're
saying well in order to fix climate
change we're going to restrict the
amount of these fossil fuels so you
restrict Supply prices go up prices go
up so much that then you say well we've
got to turn around and put a cap on the
prices it's absolutely absurd the simple
answer is stop getting involved
government you have nothing to do with
providing electricity it's not up to you
allow the private Industries to do it
and that will increase Supply so much
and they will compete with each other
that the prices will naturally go down
if you put a cap on prices then their
profits go down if their profits go down
they've got no motivation to actually
increase anything to try hard anymore
because you are restricting their
profits you're preventing them from
being able to increase efficiency from
researching ways in order to deliver
their services better
things are going to increase in price
and you're going to have to continue to
subsidize to provide more money to the
fossil fuel companies just to keep them
afloat eventually that's eventually what
will happen is their profits will
asymptotically disappear to zero and the
federal government will have to come
along and effectively nationalize these
companies completely which has happened
before that's the road we appear to be
heading down in Australia no one's
thinking ahead people want to close down
the existing mines and coal-fired power
stations that exists and electricity
prices just keep on going up the
citizens are complaining about
electricity prices and the government is
blaming Wars in distant countries this
is all absurd but those policies of the
Australian federal government that I'm
whining about now are on a Continuum
with precisely the kind of policies
prescribed in this article in nature and
our federal government among others
around the world will love to see an
article like this in a prestigious
Journal like nature by eight
well-renowned globally respect did
academics experts in the field and
they'll be able to refer to this and say
look there's a prescription from an
expert do you want us to defy expert
opinion of course you don't you're not
scientifically illiterate like all those
other people those other people on that
side of politics who don't understand
the science they don't even read Journal
articles like the ones in nature
so what do they go on to prescribe as
well governments okay they should tax
ecologically damaging Industries such as
air travel and meat production wealth
taxes can also be used to increase
public resources and reduce inequality
and quite yeah well they won't be
wealthy very long the wealth the wealthy
won't be wealthy long if you keep taxing
them with wealth taxes but of course
that's what these people want they
regard wealth as an inherent evil when
in fact it's a good okay profit is good
wealth is good because it is the thing
that allows you to transform reality in
order to solve the problems that need to
be solved that's what wealth Is wealth
is is the repertoire of possible
Transformations that you can make and
some of those Transformations are
required if you want to fix the problem
in front of you if the asteroid is
detected tomorrow by a telescope and
it's heading towards the Earth we need
wealth we need wealth and Rapid wealth
creation in order to fund the rockets
and whatever other technology we need in
order to deflect that thing there's been
a proof of concept so far but if it's a
bigger asteroid and we don't discover it
until it's a little bit too late we
better want to have the Elon musk's and
Jeff bezoses of the world with the
capacity to build big Rockets to
actually try out this stuff if they
don't have the wells because it's been
extracted from them by government and
they haven't been doing the research
they otherwise would have been doing
investing in those companies those
rocket companies then that will be on
the governments that will be on this
sort of policy and replace the ask of
the asteroid as I like to say is just a
metaphor for any other problem any
problem if the pandemic that we recently
had is followed up by much worse
pandemic soon that will be a catastrophe
that will be a genuine catastrophe
because we have squandered so much
wealth already
what are we going to do we've we've
depleted the stores of wealth we should
be funding science from all angles
fundamental physics fundamental
epidemiology fundamental virology all of
this stuff can we are we could we be
doing more can we not afford it as we
once could could we afford to be doing
more okay let's keep going I'm skipping
a little here and they talk about um
governments using their own currencies
and uh monetary policy no doubt they're
supporters of modern monetary policy no
print more money just spend it no
problem okay so they're going into
monetary policy and things boring let's
get going manage working time reductions
as the next one Trials of shorter
working hours have generally reported
positive outcomes okay yes so let's see
what the positive outcomes are they say
these include less stress and burnout
and better sleep among employers while
maintaining productivity most trials
have focused on the public sector mainly
in northern Europe but private companies
in North America Europe and australasia
have run Trials of four day weeks with
similar result however the companies
were self-selecting and researchers
needed to test whether this approach can
succeed more widely for example outside
white collar industries that dominate
the trials end quote no doubt I'm in
support of this I don't have any problem
with people working less if they want to
okay so long as the the same amount is
being done whatever the business needs
to be done or whatever the government
services need to be done but if you just
artificially reduce what was five days
down to four days well that's a 20
reduction that work that slack surely
needs to be picked up somewhere or other
you need to employ more people but again
I think this should be a negotiation
some people really do want to work six
or seven days a week they just do okay
I've met people like this okay it's a
period in my life where I was quite
happy to do six or seven days a week and
once you've done that for a while maybe
you don't want to do that anymore so you
should be able to select Industries and
jobs and work that you want that you
want not being forced into you have to
do a four day week or you have to do a
five-day work yeah it's a bizarre kind
of culture sure we've gotten ourselves
into but again that part of this
coercion model everyone does the same
thing whether it's five days four days
three days or two it doesn't matter if
you're being forced into doing it
because the state is telling you this
what this is what needs to be done it's
the wrong approach or if just the boss
is telling you what to do if you don't
want to be told what to do by the boss
then find another job most people also
accept this is sometimes a reality for
part of their life okay skipping past
just uh reducing the work week okay
that's fine but it's not that simple
it's not just it's not so simple just to
say we're reducing the work week down to
four days
stuff still needs to get done okay if
there's a certain number of police that
need to patrol the streets in order to
keep the place safe or to respond to
calls or let's use paramedics okay then
there's a certain number of paramedics
that need to be out there on any given
shift so if you're telling them they
only need to work three days instead of
four or two days instead of three or
whatever it happens to be you need to
employ more paramedics and perhaps
that's going to increase your costs if
you run the paramedics if you're if
you're the government who's if you're
the government minister in charge of
that particular Ministry you know the
health Ministry that's got to pay these
paramedics where do you get the money
from well again from taxation so you're
going to have to raise the taxes perhaps
it's not that simple and just reduce the
work week stuff still needs to get done
there's a certain amount of work that
needs to be done next reshape
provisioning systems okay so they say
quote no country currently meets the
basic needs of its residents sustainably
it's that word so almost all countries
in the west meet the base needs of their
residents but when they say sustainably
they of course mean in a way that
doesn't impact the environment which is
impossible which is absolutely
impossible you're always going to have
an impact on the environment the
environment doesn't mind the environment
is unthinking unfeeling uncaring the
environment is the thing that causes the
thunderstorms the earthquakes the
volcanoes it is the thing we need to
protect ourselves against we shouldn't
worry about affecting the environment we
should worry about the environment
destroying us killing us affecting
people people are the most important
things in the universe the environment
stretches all the way out to the very
edges of the universe they go on to say
quote affluent economies use more than
their fair share of resources
and because fair share what does this
fair share mean fair share means that
everyone should be allocated precisely
the same amount and no one should use
more than anywhere else but people have
different preferences don't they I can
imagine the Olympic snow skier is going
to use more resources than I do because
they're traveling to places where it's
very very cold so they need to have more
heating they also need to buy all the
expensive gear that's required for snow
skiing good on them that's on them
that's their Preference they want to do
something like that should they not be
allowed to be affluent and to engage in
things like snow skiing well according
to this perhaps not perhaps then not
using their fair share or people who
like to go fishing need to have a boat I
don't have a boat I don't have a yacht
I'd like to have a yacht is that my fair
share the thing is that human beings are
creative individuals we all have very
diverse interests so we are going to use
different amounts of resources by virtue
of the fact that we live in different
places as well some people do live in a
nice warm place some people even
freezing cold locations others live in
stinking hot locations where you live
under what conditions you live is also
going to be a factor in how much
resources you use okay let's keep going
so skipping a little and then they go on
to say quote researchers need to
reconcile these approaches and consider
resources besides Energy including
materials land and water they need to
examine the provisioning systems for
housing Transportation communication
Healthcare education and food what
social and institutional changes would
improve provisioning okay so they're
going on about provisioning here in
other words how does the government get
this stuff to you how does the
government get materials land and water
to you how does it get transportation
and communication Health Care to you
well it's going to well it's going to be
a coercive mechanism isn't it people are
going to be allotted a certain amount of
housing a certain amount of
Transportation they can have a certain
amount of data that they're allowed to
use a certain amount of Health Care that
they can have each year okay you might
have a certain number of units of these
things and once you've consumed your
units well and you're in trouble aren't
you you've already used your monthly
downloads you've already traveled X
number of kilometers this month you
can't travel any further you've been to
the doctor three times this week that's
it we can't afford you to go anymore and
food well provisioning a food when has
this ever been a problem by the way in
the west over the last few decades
there's a private this is one area where
often the Communists of this sort don't
really suggest that the government needs
to be involved but here they kind of are
insinuating that the government might
need to provision food but why what's
wrong at the moment is there
malnutrition going on in the West in
Australia in the United States Canada
Britain Europe Asia anywhere are people
genuinely malnourished I don't think so
and I think that the reason they're not
is because there is a wonderful free
market of people competing restaurants
and supermarkets and well every can
convenient shop that you walk into is
just stocked packed full of food and
drinks there isn't want of food and
there isn't want of food because of this
competition this abundance this capacity
for us to create more than what we need
not so much that it's unprofitable but
enough so that everyone gets what they
want in fact more than what they want
and the companies continue to grow and
continue to innovate and continue to
make more at a cheaper price and more
nutritious as well and better flavor and
all that sort of stuff the cost per
calorie keeps on going down and that's a
good thing keep on going just take the
last paragraph of this section and they
said take housing for example in many
parts of the world property markets
cater to developers landlords and
finance years this contributes to
segregation and inequality and can push
working people out of City centers so
they are dependent on cars which
increases fossil fuel emissions
alternative approaches include public or
cooperative housing and a financial
system that prioritizes housing as a
basic need rather than as an opportunity
for profit and quite look you don't have
a right to live in a particular place
okay you you don't have a right to live
in the city you have a right to live
where you can afford to live and no one
has a right to these things if you had a
right to it then the government must
provide you with a house for example and
in many many places they do I accept
that what you have a right to do is a
right to buy a house but you don't have
a right to be given a house okay to be
given a house in anywhere at all and in
cities in many cities yes the property
is more expensive that's the reality
except reality
I accept reality I'm not living in a
waterfront Mansion I accept reality I
don't have a right to live there but if
I had enough money and a house was for
sale there then I would have a right to
put a bid on the house this isn't hard
this is all just more of the politics
and economics of Envy these are people
looking at wealthy people who have
Waterside Mansions people who don't have
to work long hours and saying I want
that too but they don't have the money
to do that they don't have the money to
have long stretches of time where
they're not engaged in difficult
physical labor or difficult work at the
office they have a small studio
apartment somewhere they are envious of
these people who are earning lots and
lots of money or in these cases
academics who are working really hard in
a university job not earning as much as
the entrepreneur we'd all like to earn
more money and grind less but at the
moment many of us are not able to do
that we have to work hard not all of us
are in the privileged position where we
don't have to work hard ideally one day
we will be with increased technology
with artificial intelligence with the
economy as it is making advances in
science and technology and knowledge
creation broadly then everything
eventually gets automated and everyone's
life gets better there's only so much
Coastline so not everyone can live on
the coastal Waterfront Mansion but
everyone can have a better standard of
living but you know how to frustrate
that project do you know how to ensure
that people will never be able to escape
from the grind is to implement a
coercive communist socialist style
system where everyone is engaged in some
sort of physical labor just to keep the
machine running just to keep people fed
the only way to have Innovation to have
automation of things is to have
creativity is to have people figuring
out ways of doing their stuff and you
know where that gets done it's not in
the government it is in Private Industry
it is the the apples and Teslas of the
world it is these large corporations
where you have the brightest wealthiest
people working on difficult problems of
how to automate stuff and make life
easier for everyone eventually yes into
the asymptotic future everyone will be
able to leave behind drudgery everyone
will be able to leave behind the
perspiration phase everyone will be able
to leave behind hard physical labor or
boring work at the office yes that is
absolutely possible that is a soluble
problem but we are not there yet we
simultaneously can Embrace that
possibility in the future as a real
future while also admitting what our
reality is now and personally on a
personal level you need to accept the
reality now that if it seems like you
have to work hard in order to earn the
money to get to a position where you can
have an easier life then accept that
reality that's all there is for it you
can read the beginning of infinity and
you can accept that there is optimism
and hope there that one day one day you
will escape from all perspiration and
you can lay back and you can be creative
and solve genuinely interesting problems
but that might not be your circumstance
right now right now you could pursue
ways in which you can foster an
environment in your own life to work on
nothing but creative stuff but in the
meantime you also might need to feed
yourself in the meantime you might have
to pay the rent in the meantime you
might have to accept the fact that bills
need to be paid it's there's nothing
there's no way of getting around that
and if you think that the government is
going to provide a Utopia where they pay
all of your bills you're in Dreamland
you're in Fantasyland because if this is
the reality that you want to implement
then what's going to happen is the
government is going to completely squash
Innovation and creativity by taking away
from everyone the motivation to make
their life better by striving for
something better and at the moment for
many people that requires a bit of
perspiration perspiration in the form
quite often of creatively thinking
through problems but if you're not
thinking through your problems yourself
at an individual level and instead
someone's giving you an answer like the
government here's the job that is going
to set you up for Life here's the thing
that you're going to do here's the way
in which you are the Cog in this machine
to keep everything running and you were
told by the way oh you'll only have to
work four days a week of course then the
crops begin to fail then the natural
disaster happens then the sun doesn't
shine then the wind doesn't blow the
solar energy isn't being produced the
wind energy isn't being produced the
batteries are all depleted and what
happens then
what happens then is the actual
civilization will collapse because you
don't have electricity why don't you
have electricity because you have
refused to build cold-fired power
stations you've shut them all down
you've also said that nuclear is off the
table as well now we're all hoping that
fusion power comes to save the day but
again it's not there yet either and in
the meantime in the meantime until we
transition to fusion power which will be
a solution at some point in the future
we don't know how far it could be weeks
it could be months it could be years it
could be decades it could be centuries
we just don't know until then let's use
the cheapest electricity we have that's
a reality the reality is that sometime
in the distant future be it's months
years or decades you will be able to sit
back and engage in nothing but creative
work you won't have to work hard but
we're not there yet for almost all of us
for almost all of us there is going to
be a transition phase in our life where
we have to work hard we have to grind
why in The Hope in the optimistic hope
that this will bear fruit and and the
fruit will be that eventually you can
work slightly less hard and slightly
less hard still and slightly less hard
still until you're engaged in a project
where it never feels like work at all
that's the ideal for everyone ideals are
worth pursuing but you can't Implement
an ideal by clicking your fingers and
magicing it into reality that's not the
way any of this works but this policy
prescription we're being presented here
by the authors of this nature commentary
article is Magic it's a magic way of
moving from the reality of where we are
to where ideally people would like to be
but there's no plan for how to get there
and without a plan of how to get from X
to Y they may as well be 50 billion
light years between X and Y there's
simply no way to Traverse the space okay
so accept reality while simultaneously
accepting that things can and will get
better
but often the transition from the
reality which not might not be ideal to
something that is a lot better must
happen incrementally because if you take
a step on the road to somewhere better
you might make a misstep and if you make
a misstep you want to be able to
backtrack and the smaller the step
you've taken no matter how fast you take
it you can quite easily go backwards but
if you take these huge leaps and you
implement a revolutionary scheme it can
be difficult to undo the damage that
you've caused okay skipping to the next
section which says political feasibility
and opposition quote growth is often
treated as an Arbiter of political
success few leaders dare to challenge
GDP growth but public attitudes are
changing polls in Europe show the
majority of people prioritize well-being
and ecological objectives overgrowth end
quote or yes but that's because they may
not understand the necessary link
between GDP growth wealth creation and
so-called well-being well-being
happiness generally feeling satisfied
and like you're accomplishing something
in life human flourishing these things
occur in societies where the overall
wealth is increasing you have something
to strive for you can make life better
for yourself your family and everyone in
society you can look forward to it
tomorrow where you're earning more money
than today and if everyone has that they
have something to Aspire to they think
yes things are getting better my
computer's getting better my car is
getting better my house is getting
better I've got more money so that I
don't have to work so hard tomorrow I
can relax a little bit more today this
is what growth is growth is our ability
to become more wealthy to have more time
to do stuff that we'd like to do
degrowth is the absolute opposite to
that they want to square a circle they
are running a contradiction inherit
parent at the heart of this which is
that we'll all do less we'll all work
less less hours there will be degrowth
but somehow we'll all be better off how
is this possible if there's degrowth
across the entire Community across
Society then that means all of society
has less money if the GDP is going down
then the net amount of money in that
Society has decreased per person the
amount of wealth has decreased the
amount of options you have for
purchasing stuff computers cars boats
houses whatever has also decreased the
number of different kinds of clothes has
decreased is your life getting better
with this reduction in choice in this
reduction in wealth after all
everything's undergoing degrowth in this
model you're being asked to work less
you're being guaranteed a job but you
can't do as much with the money you do
have you've got less money you've got
less purchasing power everyone you have
less money your family has less money
your children can look forward to list
money whatever the standard of living is
that you have now your children can look
forward to a worse standard of living
that's degrowth that's a reduction in
growth that's a reduction in wealth this
is not hard to understand now you might
be able to sit back in your backyard
look up at the sky and enjoy some free
time but forget about going on an actual
vacation an actual holiday somewhere
you're not allowed to travel overseas
anymore there aren't as many planes
flying such as in covert in fact there
might be restrictions on people being
able to travel frivolous things like
overseas holidays won't be permitted
under this model in fact you might not
be able to travel Interstate because
after all that requires fossil fuels and
you might have used up your allotted
amount of energy for that particular
month this entire dystopian view of
degrowth is a recipe for disaster
depression and decline it is the way in
which the problem will arise that we
won't have the wealth to combat we won't
be able to react in the agile fashion
that we are in a Dynamic Society this is
a recipe for a static Society a society
in which there isn't improvements being
made it's the exact opposite to
Improvement when you make improvements
then you have growth but this is not
about progress and Improvement it's the
opposite it's about engaging in D growth
they can say all they want about how
things would be better but the simple
fact is if you reduce the amount of
wealth in a society you have degrowth
negative growth a recession which they
say is not a recession this is a
deliberate a deliberate reduction in
growth negative growth over a number of
years until until when we're not told
not told exactly how small the economy
has to become we're just told it must
become smaller engaging in degrowth so
that everyone has less money less wealth
less options on which to spend their
money the small amount the lesser amount
that they do have it's an absolute
fantasy it's a description of the worst
kind of dystopia you can imagine if
these people are allowed to get their
way unfortunately in some senses they
are to some extent they are actually
having an impact now this is at one
extreme published though it is in the
journal Nature which is ludicrous but
these ideas do in some form inform many
Western countries around the world this
idea of degrowth is already happening
when it comes to energy policy they just
want to apply it to everything else now
human flourishing and well-being is
coupled to the hope that your life will
get better and one way of measuring how
people's lives are getting better is an
increase in wealth their capacity to buy
more stuff to fix their problems to pay
for what they need to pay for in order
that their life becomes better if you
engage in D growth you reduce the amount
of wealth that means the number of
solutions that they can afford to
actually purchase to fix the problems in
their lives is diminished this is not a
good thing they go on quote polls in the
United States and the United Kingdom
show support for job guarantees and
working time reductions end quote well
of course polls show for those things
polls show support for free holidays
polls shows support for more
Disneyland's polls show support for free
alcohol deliveries every weekend
what this is not a consensus issue okay
it's not about how many people think
that an idea is good that makes it good
whether an idea is good or not is an
objective fact about the world a job
guarantee in working time reductions may
or may not be good but it doesn't matter
what the majority of people think it's
whether or not in the real world that
actually has good outcomes for
individual people and it may not the
large numbers of workers who have left
their jobs in movement such as the U.S
great resignation or lying flat protest
groups in China show there is demand for
shorter working hours and more Humane
and meaningful work end quote well good
yeah this is this is what the option is
certainly in places like the US where
you have the option of resigning
unfortunately in places like the US and
Australia and other places the
resignations were possible because the
government guaranteed at least for some
amount of time and income so of course
people could resign now ideally you want
to be able to resign so you can move
into a better job no problem with people
resigning to go to a better job under
this system of degrowth where everyone
is assigned a job guarantee then you're
guaranteed a particular job and you a
guaranteed particular conditions
whatever the government says those
conditions are and they may be worse
than what the private sector would have
offered let's keep on going and we have
a at the end here we have a section
that's just titled what next
uh the the very first sentence
government action is crucial
end quote you bet it is you bet it is
this is all government this is all
government all the time everywhere
this is the Multiverse government
everywhere in your face at all times
okay so
um how much energy you can use the
government will tell you what clothes
you wear the government will tell you
what job you have the government will
tell you what your income is the
government will tell you where you're
going to be educated and what you're
going to be taught the government will
tell you the government already does a
lot of this but just government on Uber
steroids I suppose okay
let's get going
action is crucial this is a challenge
because those in power have ideologies
rooted in mainstream neoclassical
economies and tend to have limited
exposure to researchers who explore
economics from other angles
like Marxism yeah so the government
action thing is a bit of a challenge
they're admitting because there are
people who have ideologies that are
opposed to government being involved in
absolutely everything there are these
crazy lunatic Libertarians out there who
think things like the private sector
should be able to engage in trialing
different solutions to things and
sometimes those trials will fail and
sometimes they'll succeed the ones that
succeed tend to make a profit and the
ones that don't tend to make a loss and
in this way we have this sort of
darwinian business model where the
success Will Survive and the failures
Fall by the wayside but we don't want
this we want it to be success all the
time we want to have the perpetual
motion machine of the economy where we
violate laws of energy conservation we
just have less growth but somehow
everyone's better off hmm let's keep on
going they say political space will be
needed to debate and understand
Alternatives and to develop policy
responses well that sounds nice you have
a political space needed to debate and
understand Alternatives yes I wonder I
wonder if they really got to debate the
Alternatives like capitalism who would
come out on top you we see these debates
we see euron brooken and Daniel Hannan
and others have these debates and it's
pretty obvious who wins in these cases
let's keep going forums working on this
include the well-being economy Alliance
the growth in transition movement in
Austria the European parliament's
post-growth conference initiative and
the UK all party parliamentary group on
limits to growth oh this is wonderful so
the Europeans in the UK are engaged in
post-growth and limits to growth
growth is a good thing growth means that
things are getting better that's all it
means that's all it means okay one
metric is that the GDP goes up and again
as I say this gross domestic product
tells you something about how much money
the entire nation has and you know you
divide that by the number of people in
the nation and if that goes down well
then the amount of wealth that each
individual person has has also gone down
so individuals are being affected this
always comes back to a particular
individual's life if the entire country
on average is going backwards then so on
average is each individual each
individual has less wealth less options
less capacity to solve their own
problems because to solve a problem
takes wealth okay the solution is going
to cost you money whether that solution
be a medical solution an educational
solution a solution to put a roof of
your head a solution to buy a computer
or buy a new pair of underwear or
whatever it happens to be okay if you
have less wealth in the society then you
individually are likely to have less
wealth as well and now they go on with
their contradictions they go on so quote
strong social movements are necessary
forms of decision making that are
decentralized small scale and directs
such as Citizens assemblies would help
highlight public views about more
Equitable economies okay so they say
that but what they really mean is that
we just need these small groups of
community-minded people
agitating in towns and Villages and town
halls and wherever else so that it's
kind of decentralized in that sense
until they have enough power to vote in
the people where it will centralize
everything and then we don't need the
decentralization then we need the
centralization then we need the
centrally controlled economy that's the
only purpose for decentralizing here
it's a means to an end okay the means is
decentralized but the ends are
centralized going on and they say quote
addressing the question of how to
prosper without growth will require a
massive mobilization of researchers in
all disciplines it's like post-modernism
isn't it I mean we're going to need what
and lots of people out there spouting
our nonsense in order to Hoodwink
everyone else okay we just need to throw
lots of experts at them and then they'll
be confused by our terminology so
research is in all disciplines including
open-minded economists yeah these
economists are not open-minded you know
they they think things like you have to
make a profit in order to be able to
create the money and the wealth to pay
for the stuff that you want that's a
ridiculous idea you don't need to do
that you can go backwards you can you
can run at a loss and still pay for
stuff that's better than it was
yesterday
okay so open-minded economists they need
social and political scientists modelers
and statisticians yes so you need the
mathematics and you need the graphs so
you just need the social scientists to
have a friendly statistician to draw a
graph of how it is that when D growth is
implemented actually look at this graph
which is trending upwards of well-being
see the well-being will go up on one
axis while the GDP goes down on the
other X so we can do this we just need
the modelers and statisticians to draw a
graph of this and then we'll publish it
in nature by the way we'll put it in
nature and then it'll be a peer-reviewed
scientific article that you you can't
you won't be able to debate because
that's the experts and what are U.S
science tonight okay keep going research
on D growth and ecological economics
needs more funding to increase capacity
to address necessary questions and the
agenda needs attention and debate in
major economic environmental and climate
forums such as United Nations
conferences yes United Nations so the de
facto nascent Global government so we
just need to give them more power and
then they'll be able to take over the
economy the environment and the climate
of planet Earth okay so they'll be in
charge of that
and we won't need these pesky nation
states which you know compete with one
another about who has the best
conditions we don't need that everyone
will live under a Chinese style model
final paragraph
says quote a March 2022 editorial in
this journal argued that it is time to
move Beyond a limits to growth versus a
green growth debate we agree in our view
the question is no longer whether growth
will run into limits but rather how we
can enable societies to prosper without
growth to ensure a just an ecological
Future Let's pave the way end quote yeah
this is a nightmare the whole thing's a
nightmare
um there are there aren't limits to
growth okay the the resources are
infinite the only thing that's limited
as we like to say here is knowledge and
the only way to create knowledge is to
be able to try stuff out we have to try
stuff out by conjecturing this includes
our technology this includes our
businesses this includes methods of
wealth production and this is why the
free market is necessary because you
don't know what's going to work ahead of
time you can't predict the growth of
knowledge and a specific type of the
growth of knowledge our Technologies and
businesses and you know how to make
better clothes and how to make better
cars and how to have better energy
sources and all that sort of stuff so
you need to have a multiple City a
multifaceted approach to this thing so
that you can compete you can have a
competition of ideas or competition of
Technologies a competition of clothes
have underwear of foods out there in the
market so that some will fail and we can
discard those but some Will Survive and
all of this generates wealth and you
need more wealth the companies that
succeed need to have wealth need to have
profit so they can reinvest into
research to create more knowledge about
how to make things yet better this is
why growth is needed growth is needed in
order to improve our circumstance our
circumstance is what it is and it can
either get better which means that we've
grown or it can get worse which means
that we've degrown
they want to say that de-growing in some
way D growth is a good thing because
it's going to reduce our impact
ultimately on the environment which they
see as good and I see as the hellscape
the hellscape is that we do not push
back against this hostile Universe the
universe is not out to kill us but it's
also not friendly it's just naturally
hostile there are natural disasters
surrounding us all the time and the only
way for us to protect ourselves against
the Hostile Universe including a hostile
planet is to generate the wealth so we
have the technology to push back and
that's going to cause us to affect the
environment we necessarily have to
affect the environment we necessarily
have to have an impact upon this Earth
everything that you're being told is a
bad thing about people namely the
environmental impact is in fact the good
thing it's the thing that is protecting
people the most precious resource in the
universe we need more people we need
growth reject ideas like this so at this
point what can I say by means of summary
or conclusion well I have to say that
none of this is science it's ideology
this isn't the open exchange of ideas it
is a form of institutional capture they
say it's science well okay where's the
experiment where's the testable Theory
this is nothing but a political Treatise
it's not even economics this is pure
politics pure Marxist theory as I say
and it serves a single purpose it is
published by people who lean far left in
a journal which is undermining its
reputation to push that same far-left
political agenda to provide a scientific
veneer to a set of dogmas that
politicians and bureaucrats and
governments can point to and say this
study by eight respected experts in the
relevant fields of economics and
environmental science at prestigious
universities is not just a blog post or
a newspaper article it appears in nature
never mind it being labeled commentary
these are expert opinions we will be
told as we are presently told now when
it comes to the more narrow area of
climate policy a policy is our moral
prescription it tells us what people say
they want in the future to be done it is
the set of shoulds about our world this
is just what these people think should
happen but there is no way of them
knowing any of it will achieve anything
better indeed the only objective metric
they point to that measures things
getting better or worse is GDP and it's
the one thing they want to reduce that's
the whole point to make the one
objective measure of things getting
better
worse it is a logical self-refuting and
contradictory but because it appears in
nature it'll be respected and it will be
pointed to when are we going to stop
doing what doesn't work prices for
energy continue to rise and governments
around the world continue to demonize
the one form of energy that is
ubiquitous cheap and reliable absurdly
so-called renewable energy relying on
batteries is not renewable no battery
lasts forever no solar panel or wind
turbine lasts forever those things need
replacing and those things need massive
resources to produce anyway again as I
mentioned in the main part of this
podcast what amount of batteries would
be needed to power a major city like New
York in the winter at night when the
wind is not blowing and how often do
such batteries need to be replaced what
is their footprint and what are the
dangers and what are the pollutants I
think we are right in the main not to be
persuaded that solar energy is a good
solution in many places it simply cannot
do what it needs to do for much of the
day or year wind is similar I am
persuaded that one day Fusion will be
here to make all these discussions
completely moot but in the meantime we
can impoverish ourselves and moralize
and frighten the children with stories
of Doom by saying how evil fossil fuels
are and Implement policies to
decommission mines and coal-fired power
stations and restrict oil and gas
exploration and watch prices rise
everywhere as we spend countless
billions on unreliable misnamed
Renewables or we can use the cheapest
most reliable form of energy as we save
the wealth to work on precisely things
like Fusion research or very safe
traditional fission nuclear power or as
I say stick with coal the
catastrophizing is something we should
be weary of we should be done with it
there are many problems before us
climate change is just one whether it is
caused by man or caused by Nature it
would be a problem we would want to
mitigate anyway the weather is something
we want to protect ourselves from the
ocean is something we want to protect
ourselves from no amount of climate
change mitigation or reduction in fossil
fuels can prevent a tsunami when a
continental plate shifts a little under
the Pacific Ocean no amount of Taxation
on oil and coal can prevent a super
volcano from erupting and over the next
decade or Century an event which would
make all other present problems seem
like minor traffic jams by comparison
and if we want to deal with future
eruptions on a global scale or large
tsunamis we need more wealth and more
energy we might want to figure out ways
to produce more concrete walls and much
more resistant houses with material that
coal is required at high volumes and
high temperatures to smelt there is not
one major problem before us climate
change is not the only problem in town
it's a problem but it is a much worse
problem that the media and governments
and whole social movements are fixated
upon it to the exclusion of all other
possible problems the next pandemic
that's even worse the next earthquake
that causes massive destruction to our
major city the next terrorist state to
get hold of nuclear weapons or as I like
to say the problem we are simply not
aware of today and no one is even
imagining what Cosmic or Oceanic natural
catastrophe is ahead of us that we don't
know about what we don't know about it
but if we want to know about it as soon
as possible we want people engaged in
fundamental science and to be well
funded and we want industry to be
earning lots of money being productive
in short we want a lot more wealth a lot
more power a lot more ability to
transform the physical world around us
so that it is resilient safer and able
to respond to the unknown we want a
tradition of criticism that is even more
dynamic in making more rapid progress
than we are making today
we will know we have that in just one
sense by having growth much faster than
we have now reducing regulations
lowering taxes enabling people to choose
which sources of energy they want to use
to allow a multi-faceted approach to
problem solving rather than a centrally
controlled one fixated on a single
problem we want dynamism and Agility and
individual aspiration among people not a
cookie cutter approach focused on the
evils of people and the impact they have
on the environment we need a
people-centered approach to policy we
will make this world the cosmos better
for people only we can do that the
natural environment is not made for us
the Earth is barely survivable barely
suitable for human beings barely
hospitable to any life form only our
technology our structures our energy the
way we construct the environment around
us and transform physical reality into
something better gives us any chance of
occupying the infinite future anything
that resists this and pushes in the
other direction should be taken
personally as a direct threat to Liberty
and life this nature article is a threat
to Liberty livelihoods and lives it is
anti-human it is misguided it is a deep
error and misconception the authors May
mean well but that does not mean all is
well it isn't this is a policy to usher
in catastrophe only one thing separates
us from all those extinct civilizations
that have come and gone before our
ability to continue to improve to make
progress and grow grow knowledge grow
technology and grow wealth we cannot do
these things in isolation we need all
three knowledge technology and wealth
and ideally we need more people to do
all of that faster the Earth is not our
only home the universe is but if we want
to ever explore the rest of it we need
to survive this first studio apartment
that is this single planet we all share
and it's not a nice place it's got
broken windows and a dirty water supply
and a dodgy air conditioning system
the solution is not to stop working and
cease paying our bills it's to treat the
Earth as a fixer-upper a place to
renovate we need lots more wealth to do
that we should want to control the
climate for us we can upgrade eventually
but for now let's not continue to pour
scorn on those trying to make everything
better here on this dirt pile of a
planet the scientists and entrepreneurs
and others working on Solutions and
increasing knowledge and wealth they
need energy we all need energy and the
cheaper it is the better everything else
becomes as progress moves more rapidly
the only thing that gets in the way of
any of this at the moment any of this
rapid progress is coercion and force and
the biggest source of force the one
entity claiming a monopoly on Force are
the governments of the world while there
may be virtuous uses of forces at times
the pendulum is swinging too far too far
to the left lift the regulations reduce
the taxes free up the reliable energy G
sources and get out of people's
businesses strive for rapid growth and
prosperity if you want to increase
well-being this is the way to do it this
is not a lunatic libertarian idea this
is not crazy capitalism it's simply
logic and it's the ethical thing to do